# Plant_Disease_Detection_System
In the developing world, more than 82% of the agricultural production is generated by smallholder farmers and reports of yield loss of more than 50% due to pests and diseases. Identifying of the plant diseases is essential in prevention of yield and volume losses in agriculture Product. Studies of plant diseases mean studies of visually observable patterns on the plant. Health surveillance and detecting diseases in plants is essential for sustainable development agriculture. It is very difficult to monitor plant diseases manually. It requires a lot of experiences in work, expertise in these field plant diseases and also requires excessive processing time. Therefore; image processing is used to detect plant diseases. Disease detection includes steps such as acquisition, image Pre-processing, image segmentation, feature extraction and Classification. We describe these methods for the detection of plant diseases on the basis of their leaf images; automatic detection of plant disease is done by the image processing and machine learning. The different leaf images of plant disease are collected and feature extracted of the various machine learning and deep learning methods.
The recent expansion of deep learning methods has found its application in plant disease detection, offering a robust tool with highly accurate results. Our aims are to identify the state of the art, with the use of convolutional neural networks (CNN) in the process of identification and classification of plant diseases. With the help of CNN, we can be able to diagnose the disease as well as the best cure for plant.

# Steps for Run the project
1) start the Main.py file from the code folder (run on python IDLE).
2) After that open the frontend folder and then run the "npm start" command on the command prompt.
3) Then wait for a while it will automatically start.
